>> Kadi Kraman: So next up we're
going to breeze through some UI work.
So we need to actually build
this plant management UI.
A lot of this is going to be
concepts that we already use.
So I'm going to point out
the more interesting things.
But we will be copy pasting some UI code.
So first we will need a full
screen modal to add a new plant.
So if you go to the end of this lesson,
you'll see what we are aiming for.
So on iOS,
we're going to render a full screen
modal over the top of our button tabs.
And then on Android,
I've just kept the default animation.
So it will slide in from the right, but
it will still be a full screen modal.
You could change this animation to also
slide in from the bottom if you prefer,
but I like to keep
the defaults when possible.
So how do we render a full
screen modal over the top?
So we want to open it with
an icon button from the homepage.
So you might think that you would want
to render it inside your tabs, but
if we render it inside our tabs,
it won't be able to
render over the top of these bottom tabs,
even if you render it modally.
So whenever you want to render
a modal over the top of content,
then this modal needs to be
defined at the same level.
Or above the content that
you want it to overlay.
So in our case, we want it to be
at the very top or root level.
So in our app folder,
let's create a new file called new.tsx.
And let's just copy this placeholder.
So it's just gonna be a view
with some center align text.
And let's add the screen into
our layout file as well.
So again, the screen already exists
even though I haven't added anything.
But I want to use the options to
set the presentation mode to modal.
So let's do new, and
we want to do presentation modal.
And let's give it a title of New plant.
Next, let's add a little vector icon
button at the home header on the right,
like a little plus for
adding a new button.
So we can choose a vector
record from here.
So I think I used a plus from undesign.
So copy this.
So it's not gonna be in this root layout
file, I almost did the wrong thing.
So we want to add this.
So we've hidden this header, if you see.
So we've got headerShown false.
So we want this header button to
be in the layout file of our tabs.
So if we go into this layout file,
and we have our index file,
so it will be a header
button on this index file.
So import it.
And in index, we'll do a headerRight.
HeaderRight, and this will be a function.
And let's start by rendering this icon.
Lovely, so this is rendering
to the right of the screen.
I want this to be a pressable, so
let's wrap this in a Pressable.
So this will be imported from.
And let's use the Link
component from explore later,
and the href is going to be new.
Okay, so now if I click this,
it's not going to work and
that's because we have a component
as a child of our X-ray router link.
So whenever you run the text here, so
if I just said New as a text,
then this will work.
But because I'm rendering a component,
I need to use the asChild prop.
If I do asChild, then this does open.
So for this pressable,
let's add some margin.
So let's do a quick style.
Let's keep it an inline style.
Let's just do a marginRight of,
marginRight, of 18.
So it's not squished against the edge.
And instead of black,
let's use our beautiful green color.
So we'll do theme and colorGreen.
And now the last thing, and actually
the reason that I've added this pressable
here, is that, notice that when I
click on the icon, or tap on the icon,
I need to click exactly on the icon.
So even if I'm being a bit butter
fingered, and clicking Next to the icon,
it's not actually opening.
And this is not great UX.
If you're doing icon buttons, you need to
make sure that your pressable area is big
enough for users to comfortably catch it.
So on pressable or any type of components,
you can use the hitSlap.
And this basically adds additional
pressable area around your
pressable component that
also triggers the onPress.
So we'll do hitSlap 20, and now notice
that I can click next to the button.
Don't have to be right on it
to also trigger this modal.
Does that affect styling,
or spacing or anything.
It doesn't affect styling.